# awesome-nih-cloud-and-data-science-resources

List of cloud-based resouces (and the ICs developing these methods) at the NIH.    
[Contributions welcome...](https://github.com/stevetsa/awesome-nih-cloud-resources/blob/master/CONTRIBUTE.md)

Inspired by [awesome-single-cell](https://github.com/seandavi/awesome-single-cell/blob/master/README.md)
 
[All of Us Research Program](https://launch.joinallofus.org/) - [NIH?] - The All of Us Research Program has a simple mission. We want to speed up health research breakthroughs. To do this, we’re asking one million people to share health information. In the future, researchers can use this to conduct thousands of health studies.

[ANViL/AnVIL](https://cgp.genomics.ucsc.edu/anvil/) - [NHGRI] - The NHGRI Genomic Data Science Analysis, Visualization, and Informatics Lab-space (AnVIL) is a scalable and interoperable resource for the genomic scientific community, that leverages a cloud-based infrastructure for democratizing genomic data access, sharing and computing across large genomic, and genomic related, data sets. The AnVIL will facilitate integration and computing on and across large datasets generated by NHGRI programs, as well as initiatives funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), or by other agencies that support human genomics research.  In addition, the AnVIL will be a component of the emerging NIH Data Commons, and is expected to collaborate and integrate with other genomic data resources through the adoption of the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) principles, as their specifications emerge from the scientific community. The AnVIL will provide a collaborative environment where datasets and analysis workflows can be shared within a consortium, and be prepared for public release to the broad scientific community through AnVIL user interfaces.  

[DataScience@NIH](https://datascience.nih.gov/index) - [NIH?] - New tools, new data, and new methods are taking biomedicine further than was ever possible before.  This expansion relies heavily on the contributions of computer science, mathematics, and statistics to biomedical research. The integration of Data Science and biomedicine is growing rapidly. This collaboration has spectacular value for the future of biomedicine but it cannot progress in a vacuum. Biomedical data science needs a community of practice and education at the NIH that accelerates the translational impact of biomedical research. Individuals and groups all across the NIH have taken up this goal and are already building programs, infrastructure, and communities in support of Biomedical Data Science. The Office of the Associate Director for Data Science is dedicated to highlighting ongoing efforts all across the NIH and to initiating trans-NIH programs to build a community rich in opportunities for Data Science exposure, training, and accomplishment.

[National Cancer Institute - Cancer Research Data Commons](https://cbiit.cancer.gov/ncip/cancer-data-commons) - [NCI] - In 2016, The [Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot Blue Ribbon Panel Enhanced Data Sharing Working Group](https://www.cancer.gov/news-events/cancer-currents-blog/2016/brp-report-ncab) recommended the creation of a data science infrastructure necessary to connect repositories, analytical tools, and knowledge bases and to allow data to be aggregated, queried, analyzed, and visualized in unique and powerful ways within and across data types. An integrated NCI Cancer Research Data Commons (CRDC) is one element of this infrastructure. The vision for the CRDC is a virtual, expandable infrastructure that provides secure access to diverse data types, allowing users to analyze, share, and store results, leveraging the storage and elastic compute of the cloud.  

NCI has created components — the Genomic Data Commons (GDC) and the NCI Cloud Resources — that define some of the core capabilities necessary for realizing a CRDC. Building on these components and the experience NCI gained in developing them, NCI is initiating several activities to create the foundational elements of a CRDC.

[National Cancer Institute Cloud Resources](https://cbiit.cancer.gov/ncip/crdc-cloud-resources) - [NCI] - The Cloud Resources bring together data and computation in a cloud-based environment to enable cancer research and discovery.  The NCI Cloud Resources, launched as a pilot program in 2016, are providing cancer researchers access to genomic data co-located with elastic compute and a variety of analytic tools and pipelines, in a cloud environment. Many in the cancer research community have come to rely on the Cloud Resources built by the Broad Institute, the Institute for Systems Biology (ISB), and Seven Bridges (SB) for their cancer research.  

[National Center for Data to Health (CD2H)](https://ctsa.ncats.nih.gov/cd2h/about/) - [NCATS] - Informatics advancements, coupled with a shift towards open science, are in the process of fundamentally transforming how we approach translational research and clinical care. The CTSA Program is poised to help realize precision medicine by leveraging informatics tools and expertise within CTSA hubs to solve key informatics challenges across the translational spectrum. The CD2H, launched in fall 2017, is tasked with coordinating and integrating informatics for the CTSA Program to promote data reuse and interoperability, tool sharing, informatics fluency, and collaboration. We are here to help by creating additional resources, building impactful infrastructure, and further coalescing the community to develop and implement innovative solutions.   

[National Institute of Mental Health Data Archive (NDA)](https://data-archive.nimh.nih.gov/abcd/query/cloud-tools.html) - [NIMH]The mission of the National Institute of Mental Health Data Archive (NDA) is to make research data available for reuse. Data collected across projects can be aggregated and made available using the GUID, including clinical data, and the results of imaging, genomic, and other experimental data collected from the same participants. In this way, separate experiments on genotypes and brain volumes can inform the research community on the over one hundred thousand subjects now contained in the NDA. The NDA’s cloud computation capability provides a framework in support of this infrastructure. 

[Nephele](https://nephele.niaid.nih.gov/) - [NIAID] - Nephele is a microbiome analysis engine which brings together microbiome data and analysis tools in a cloud computing environment. It offers robust, multi-step microbiome analysis pipelines, with no setup time or cost.

[NIAID Data Hub](https://niaid.bionimbus.org/login) - [NIAID] - The website combines government datasets from 3 divisions of NIAID to create clean, easy to navigate visualizations for data-driven discovery within Allergy and Infectious Diseases.  

[New Modesl of Data Stewardship](https://commonfund.nih.gov/data) - [OD] - The New Models of Data Stewardship (NMDS) program is designed to enhance biomedical discovery and improve efficiency through new digital data management strategies. These strategies contribute to NIH efforts to develop and sustain a modern biomedical data ecosystem as described in the [NIH Strategic Plan for Data Science](https://datascience.nih.gov/sites/default/files/NIH_Strategic_Plan_for_Data_Science_Final_508.pdf). They also aim to make data for research findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (FAIR) in the cloud. The New Models of Data Stewardship program began in fiscal year 2017 and will run through fiscal year 2020. It consists of two initiatives, the Data Commons Pilot Phase and the Science and Technology Research Infrastructure for Discovery, Experimentation, and Sustainability (STRIDES) initiative, working together to establish best practices, standards, and infrastructure to address the challenges above.

[NIH Data Commons Pilot Phase](https://commonfund.nih.gov/commons) - [OD] - 
The overarching goal of the NIH Data Commons is to accelerate new biomedical discoveries by developing and testing a cloud-based platform where investigators can store, share, access, and interact with digital objects (data, software, etc.) generated from biomedical and behavioral research. By connecting the digital objects and making them accessible, the Data Commons is intended to allow novel scientific research that was not possible before, including hypothesis generation, discovery, and validation.  

Researchers funded as part of the pilot phase of the NIH Data Commons Pilot Phase Consortium (DCPPC), are working out the best ways to build and implement the cloud-based platform described above. They are iteratively building and testing a series of key capabilities – fundamental computational units – needed for the Commons to operate and meet standards for being FAIR – findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable. Engaging the biomedical research community to develop the Data Commons helps ensure the needs of the research community are met. Three different and high-value test case data sets help in setting policies, processes, and architecture for the Data Commons Pilot Phase with the aim of being able to use all three data sets simultaneously in analyses. The tools and best practices developed by the DCPPC will help researchers discover and interpret connections between human genes and traits and those of model organisms like fruit flies or mice.  

[STRIDES Initiative](https://commonfund.nih.gov/strides) - [OD] - The Science and Technology Research Infrastructure for Discovery, Experimentation, and Sustainability (STRIDES) Initiative establishes partnerships with commercial cloud service providers (CSPs) to reduce economic and technological barriers to accessing and computing on large biomedical data sets to accelerate biomedical advances. A central tenet of the STRIDES Initiative is that data made available through these partnerships will incorporate standards endorsed by the biomedical research community to make data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable (FAIR).

[Sequence Data Delivery Pilot (SDDP)](https://ncbiinsights.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/2018/10/02/ncbi-ashg-2018-storage-use-dbgap-data-cloud/) - [NCBI] - Making data more accessible is part of the NIH Genomic Data Sharing (GDS) policy, which sets expectations to ensure the broad and responsible sharing of genomic research data. One solution to the accessibility problem is cloud-based storage. By placing the large datasets into cloud-based storage, you will no longer need to download the data and create redundant copies as the analyses can directly go to the cloud-hosted data. To develop cloud-hosted data, the NIH funded the Sequence Data Delivery Pilot (SDDP) project in support of the NIH GDS policy. In collaboration with SDDP, the dbGaP/SRA has successfully begun a new model to share data by providing straightforward access to large cloud-based datasets.







